Pre-configured apps (#10)
giantswarm/gitops-template: docs/add_app_template.md

# Add a new App Template to the repository

In order to avoid adding the same application from scratch across all your clusters, you can prepare App Templates that provide

> a pre-configured version of an App. This also allows you to manage and version app's config even if the app itself is not
> yet installed to any cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a pre-configured version of an App. This also allows you to manage and version an app's config even if the app itself is not
yet installed in any cluster.
```

Author: English corrections are always apprecieted :)

## Example

An example of an App Template is available in [bases/apps/nginx-ingress-controller](../bases/apps/nginx-ingress-controller).

## Export environment variables

**Note**, Management Cluster codename, Organization name, Workload Cluster name and several App-related values are needed
in multiple places across this instruction, the least error prone way of providing them is by exporting as environment variables:

```sh
export WC_NAME=CLUSTER_NAME
export APP_NAME=APP_NAME
export APP_VERSION=APP_VERSION
export APP_CATALOG=APP_CATALOG
export APP_NAMESPACE=APP_NAMESPACE
# OPTIONAL
export APP_USER_VALUES=CONFIGMAP_OR_SECRET_PATH
```

## Setting up directory tree structure for managing apps

> 1. Go to the `apps` directory and prepare directory for the new App Template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `apps` directory and prepare a directory for the new App Template:
```

    ```sh
    cd bases/apps/
    mkdir ${APP_NAME}
    ```

1. Go to the newly created directory and use [the kubectl-gs plugin](https://github.com/giantswarm/kubectl-gs) to
generate the [App CR](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/kubectl-gs/template-app/):

    ```sh
    cd ${APP_NAME}/
    kubectl gs template app \
    --app-name ${APP_NAME} \
    --catalog ${APP_CATALOG} \
    --cluster ${WC_NAME} \
    --name ${APP_NAME} \
    --namespace ${APP_NAMESPACE} \
    --version {$APP_VERSION} > appcr.yaml
    ```

>     **Note**, you most probably want to provide a default configuration, so add any of the below flags to the previous command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**, you most likely want to provide a default configuration, so add any of the below flags to the previous command:
```

    ```sh
    --user-configmap ${APP_USER_VALUES}
    --user-secret ${APP_USER_VALUES}
    ```

    Reference [the App Configuration](https://docs.giantswarm.io/app-platform/app-configuration/) for more details of how

>     to properly create respective ConfigMaps or Secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    to properly create the respective ConfigMaps or Secrets.
```

> 1. (optional) If you want to provide a default config, we're using the `kustomize`'s feature of ConfigMap generator.
>    This allows us to use pure YAML file for the configuration, without the wrapping into ConfigMap. Still, for Secrets
>    we need to encrypt them as a Secret object and the generator approach won't work. Refer our [adding App](./add_appcr.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (optional) If you want to provide a default config, we can use the ConfigMap generator feature of `kustomize`.
   This allows us to use a pure YAML file for the configuration, without the wrapping into a ConfigMap. Still, for Secrets
   we need to encrypt them as a Secret object and the generator approach won't work. Refer our [adding an App](./add_appcr.md)
```

Really nice we can use the generator feature. ❤️ 
Just some suggestions for flow.
